[ADD] Attendances: new kiosk mode doc (#9832)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/attendances/kiosks.rst

======
Kiosks
======

Odoo's *Attendances* app allows employees to check in and out of work either directly from the

> databse, or from a kiosk. Since only employee's who have access to the database (referred to as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database, or from a kiosk. Since only employees who have access to the database (referred to as
```
Typo and changed employees from possessive to plural

> user's) can check in and out from the database, kiosks are needed for employees who do **not**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users) can check in and out from the database, kiosks are needed for employees who do **not**
```
Changing users from possessive to plural

> have access to the database (are **not** user's).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
have access to the database (are **not** users).
```
Same as above

> A kiosk is a dedicated device (a laptop or desktop PC, a tablet, or a mobile phone) for employees
> to check in and out from. Kiosk mode is used for these scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A kiosk is a dedicated device (a PC, tablet, or mobile phone) for employees
to check in and out from.
```
Reworded for conciseness

.. important::

>    If employee's check in and out using either a badge or an RFID, then an accessible device in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If employees check in and out using either a badge or an RFID, then an accessible device in
```
Possessive to plural

   kiosk mode **must** be available to use these two methods.

Configuration
=============

Few configurations are needed in the *Attendances* application to use kiosks. Navigate to
:menuselection:`Attendances app --> Configuration` to access the configuration menu.

.. _attendances/kiosk-mode:

Kiosk mode
----------

Using the drop-down menu, select how an employee checks in when using a kiosk. Options are
:guilabel:`Barcode/RFID`, :guilabel:`Barcode/RFID and Manual Selection`, or :guilabel:`Manual
Selection`.

.. important::
   The *Barcode* application **does not** need to be installed to use one of the Barcode/RFID
   settings.

.. _attendances/kiosk-settings:

Kiosk settings
--------------

> The various settings in the :guilabel:`Kiosk Settings` section determines how employee's check in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The various settings in the :guilabel:`Kiosk Settings` section determines how employees check in
```

back into the database without signing back in. To exit kiosk mode, click the back button in the web
browser. This logs the user out of the database, and returns to the main log in screen. This adds an
extra layer of security, preventing anyone from accessing the database.

.. _attendances/kiosk-mode-entry:

Check in and out with a kiosk
=============================

Badge
-----

To check in or out using a badge, tap the :icon:`fa-camera` :guilabel:`Tap to scan` image in the
center of the kiosk.

.. image:: kiosks/scan-badge.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Attendances Kiosk view displaying the scan badge image.

Then, scan the barcode on the badge using the method configured in the :ref:`kiosk settings
<attendances/kiosk-settings>` section of the configuration menu. Options are a dedicated barcode
scanning device, or the kiosk's front or back camera.

Once the barcode is scanned, the employee is checked in or out, and a :ref:`confirmation message
<attendances/confirmation>` appears with all the check in or check out information.

RFID
----

To check in or out using an RFID key fob, simply scan the fob with an RFID reader.

> Once scanned, the employee is then either checked in or checked out, and a :ref:`confirmation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once scanned, the employee is either checked in or checked out, and a :ref:`confirmation
```

message <attendances/confirmation>` appears with all the check in or check out information.

Manually
--------

> Users who do not have a scannable badge or an RFID fob can manually check in and out at a kiosk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users who do not have a scannable badge, or an RFID fob, can manually check in and out at a kiosk.
```

> Tap the :guilabel:`Identify Manually` button on the kiosk, and a screen with all the employees that
> can be checked in or out appears. This is the same view as in the *Employees* application dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tap the :guilabel:`Identify Manually` button on the kiosk, and a screen appears with all the employees that
can be checked in or out. The *Employees* application dashboard has the same display.
```

> Tap on the person, and they are either checked in or checked out, and a :ref:`confirmation message
> <attendances/confirmation>` appears.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tap on a person to check them in or out, and a :ref:`confirmation message <attendances/confirmation>` appears.
```

> When a large number of employees appear in the list, making scrolling inefficient, there are two
> ways to quickly find a specific person:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two ways to quickly find a specific person:
```

> - :guilabel:`Search...`: tap on the :guilabel:`Search...` field and enter the person's name. As the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Search...`: tap on the :guilabel:`Search...` field, and enter the desired person's name. As the
```

  name is typed in, the matching results are displayed on the screen.

> - :guilabel:`Department`: to quickly filter the presented employees, tap on a department to display
>   only those employees that are part of that department. The :guilabel:`Departments` are listed on
>   the left side of the screen, and the number at the end of each department indicates how many
>   employees are part of the department, and is displayed when selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Department`: tap on any desired selection in the :guilabel:`Department` section, located on the left- 
  side of the screen, to **only** view employees from that specific department. The number at the end of each
  listed :guilabel:`Department` represents how many employees that department has.
```

PIN
~~~

> If the :guilabel:`Employee PIN Identification` option was activated in the :ref:`kiosk settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the :guilabel:`Employee PIN Identification` checkbox was ticked in the :ref:`Kiosk Settings
```

<attendances/kiosk-settings>` section of the configuration menu, the employee is prompted to enter a
PIN when manually checking in or out.

After the employee is selected, a number pad appears with a message. When checking in,
:guilabel:`(Employee) Welcome! Please enter your PIN to check in` appears above the numbers. When
checking out, :guilabel:`(Employee) Want to check out? Please enter your PIN to check out` appears
above the numbers.

Tap in the PIN using the number pad, then tap :guilabel:`OK` when done. The employee is then checked
in or out, and a :ref:`confirmation message <attendances/confirmation>` appears.

.. image:: kiosks/enter-pin.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The pop-up that appears when prompted to enter a pin.

.. _attendances/confirmation:

Confirmation message
--------------------

> When an employee checks in or out, a confirmation message appears with all the check in or check out

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an employee checks in or out, a confirmation message appears, with all the check in or check out
```

information. When checking in, a welcome message appears, as well as the date and time of check in.

> An :guilabel:`Hours Previously Today: HH:MM` field also appears, displaying any time already logged

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An :guilabel:`Hours Previously Today: HH:MM` field also appears, displaying any time that has already been logged
```

> for that employee for the day. If no time has already been logged, the value displayed is `00:00`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for that employee for the day. If no time has been logged, the value displayed is: `00:00`.
```

======
Kiosks
======

Odoo's *Attendances* app allows employees to check in and out of work directly from the database, or
from a kiosk.

> Only employees with access to the database can check in and out from the database, and they are
> referred to as *users*. Kiosks are needed for employees who do **not** have access to the database.
> 
> A kiosk is a dedicated device (a PC, tablet, or mobile phone) for employees to use when they check
> in and out.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to make a small adjustment to the order of instruction here, to introduce a kiosk and then add the layers of detail for the conditions of users vs external users :)

Also link to the _dedicated devices_
```suggestion
A kiosk is a :doc:`dedicated device <hardware>` (a PC, tablet, or mobile phone) for employees to use
when they check in and out.

Kiosks are needed for employees who do **not** have access to the database.

Only employees with access to the database can check in and out from the *Attendances* app, and they
are referred to as *users*.
```

.. important::
   If employees check in and out using a badge or an RFID, then an accessible device in *Kiosk Mode*

>    **must** be available in order to use these two methods.

Reviewer 3: What "two methods" and where can the user learn more about configuring an accessible device in "Kiosk Mode"? Probably best to add a :ref: :)

Configuration
=============

There are only a few configurations needed to use kiosks in the *Attendances* application. Navigate

> to :menuselection:`Attendances app --> Configuration` to access the :guilabel:`Settings` page.

Reviewer 3: Add internal references to these configuration sections, to be clear on what needs to be configured
```suggestion
to :menuselection:`Attendances app --> Configuration` to access the :guilabel:`Settings` page to
configure the :ref:`attendances/kiosk-mode` and the :ref:`attendances/kiosk-settings`.
```

Once all desired settings have been configured, click the :guilabel:`Save` button on the
:guilabel:`Settings` page, to activate and enable them.

.. _attendances/kiosk-mode:

Kiosk Mode section
------------------

Using the drop-down menu, select how an employee checks in when using a kiosk. Options are
:guilabel:`Barcode/RFID`, :guilabel:`Barcode/RFID and Manual Selection`, or :guilabel:`Manual
Selection`.

> .. important::

Reviewer 3: IMO this should be a note 
```suggestion
.. note::
```

   The *Barcode* application **does not** need to be installed to use one of the Barcode/RFID
   settings.

.. _attendances/kiosk-settings:

Kiosk Settings section
----------------------

The various settings in the :guilabel:`Kiosk Settings` section determine how employees check in and
out with kiosks.

> - :guilabel:`Barcode Source`: this setting **only** appears if one of the two Barcode/RFID

Reviewer 3: Add italics to the referenced options
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Barcode Source`: this setting **only** appears if one of the two *Barcode/RFID*
```

  selections were configured for the :ref:`Kiosk Mode <attendances/kiosk-mode>` setting.

  If available, select how barcodes are scanned at the kiosk, via one of the drop-down menu options.
  Barcodes can be scanned with a dedicated :guilabel:`Scanner`, or with a device's camera
  (:guilabel:`Front Camera` or :guilabel:`Back Camera`).
- :guilabel:`Employee PIN Identification`: tick this checkbox if employees should use a unique PIN
  to check in. PINs are configured on each individual employee record. Refer to the

>   :doc:`../employees/new_employee` documentation for more information on setting up PINs.

Reviewer 3: Link directly to the relevant section, since it is available :)
```suggestion
  :ref:`new employee documentation <employees/hr-settings>` for more information on setting up PINs.
```

- :guilabel:`Display Time`: determine how many seconds a check-in/check-out confirmation message
  remains on the kiosk screen before returning to the main check in screen.
- :guilabel:`Attendance Kiosk Url`: Odoo generates a unique web address (URL) to use a device as a
  kiosk, without having to sign in to the Odoo database. When setting up a kiosk device, navigate to
  this unique web address in a web browser to present the *Attendances* app kiosk.

  .. important::
     These kiosk URLs are **not** secured with any type of access code. Anyone who has the URL can
     access the *Attendances* app kiosk. If the URL is compromised for any reason, such as in the
     event of a security breach, click :guilabel:`Generate a new Kiosk Mode URL`, located beneath
     the link, to generate a new URL, and update the kiosk, accordingly.

Kiosk mode
==========

> Entering *iosk Mode* is **only** available for users with specific :ref:`access rights

Reviewer 3: Typo
```suggestion
Entering *Kiosk Mode* is **only** available for users with specific :ref:`access rights
```

<attendances/access-rights>`.

> *Kiosk Mode* can be activated in three different ways:

Reviewer 3: If implementing my previous suggestion
```suggestion
*Kiosk Mode* can be activated in two different ways:
```

#. Navigate to the :menuselection:`Attendances app`, and click :guilabel:`Kiosk Mode` in the top

>    menu. The device then enters *Kiosk Mode*.

Reviewer 3: Small adjustment for specificity 
```suggestion
   menu. The device signs out of Odoo and enters *Kiosk Mode*.
```

> #. Navigate to the :menuselection:`Attendances app --> Configuration`. In the :guilabel:`Kiosk
>    Settings` section, click the link in the :guilabel:`Attendance Kiosk Url` field. A new tab opens
>    in *Kiosk Mode*. It is recommended to close the database tab to keep the database secure.
> #. Navigate to the :menuselection:`Attendances app --> Configuration`. In the :guilabel:`Kiosk
>    Settings` section, click :guilabel:`Copy` next to the link beneath the :guilabel:`Attendance
>    Kiosk Url` field. Paste this URL into a web browser on the kiosk device, and navigate to it.

Reviewer 3: IMO These are a single method, and can be combined to:
```suggestion
   Settings` section, use the link in the :guilabel:`Attendance Kiosk Url` field to open *Kiosk
   Mode* on any device.
```

.. image:: kiosks/kiosk-url.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Attendances Kiosk URL field in the settings section of the Attendances application.

> As a security measure, once a device is in *Kiosk Mode*, it is not possible to exit *Kiosk Mode*,
> and go back into the database without signing back in.

Reviewer 3: Found this sentence confusing, this seems more direct
```suggestion
As a security measure, once a device is in *Kiosk Mode*, it is not possible to go back into the
database without signing back in.
```

> To exit *Kiosk Mode*, click the back button in the web browser. This logs the user out of the
> database, and returns to the main log in screen. This adds an extra layer of security, preventing
> anyone from accessing the database.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To exit *Kiosk Mode*, just close the tab in the web browser or return to the main log-in screen of
Odoo.
```

.. _attendances/kiosk-mode-entry:

Check in and out with a kiosk
=============================

Badge
-----

To check in or out using a badge, tap the :icon:`fa-camera` :guilabel:`Tap to scan` image in the
center of the kiosk.

.. image:: kiosks/scan-badge.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Attendances Kiosk view displaying the scan badge image.

Then, scan the barcode on the badge using the method configured in the :ref:`Kiosk Settings

> <attendances/kiosk-settings>` section of the configuration menu. Options are a dedicated barcode
> scanning device, or the kiosk's front or back camera.

Reviewer 3: Redundant to list these options, as they are already covered in the referenced section
```suggestion
<attendances/kiosk-settings>` section of the configuration menu.
```

======
Kiosks
======

Odoo's *Attendances* app allows employees to check in and out of work directly from the database, or
from a kiosk.

A kiosk is a :doc:`dedicated device <hardware>` (a PC, tablet, or mobile phone) for employees to use
when they check in and out.

Kiosks are needed for employees who do **not** have access to the database.

Only employees with access to the database can check in and out from the *Attendances* app, and they
are referred to as *users*.

.. important::
   If employees :ref:`check in and out <attendances/kiosk-mode-entry>` using a badge or an RFID,

>    then an :doc:`accessible device <hardware>` in :ref:`*Kiosk Mode* <attendances/kiosk-mode>`

Reviewer 3: Thanks for adding more context to this admonition, your refs are great!!
Just a quick fix to remove italic formatting :)
```suggestion
   then an :doc:`accessible device <hardware>` in :ref:`Kiosk Mode <attendances/kiosk-mode>`
```
